Welcome back next up
we will learn dq so
is very similar to
vector accepted the
elements are not continuous in the
memory so in RAM they're not one after
another and due to the
internal representation
dq organizes them,
basically dq is
organized as a list
of lists so to say
and differs from
vector in with push
front and pop front
methods which add and
remove elements from
the top and off the top
respectively depends
so let's go ahead
and take a look i've
actually written up
written the entirety
of the code here and I've been making a
very stupid mistakes in my recordings
and I couldn't figure out what it was so
basically I have an
empty dq I'll explain
how they function
etc but I've been
using be pushed back
method and I wanted
to add integer 100
at the end of the
line at the end of the dq and then I wanted to print out onto the
screen but basically
I was printing it
out onto the screen
before I have added
it to the end of the line and I
continuously kept on getting random
things I think I lost an hour with this stupid mistake, when I saw what
the problem was I like
are you kidding me?
but anyway the reason
why I've actually said
this is not to make a joke or to
humiliate myself more than I need to but
rather instead, I want
to state this because I
talk to myself that
something like this will
probably happen to
you and I know a lot
of my friends were
also developers
sometimes you create a piece of code and
you keep on running at them and
something that just
doesn't work you
look at the code a
hundred times and you
can't figure out what
the problem is, the
compiler doesn't tell
you if it's an error of
logic but you just can't it doesn't have
to be it can be can be
something that the compiler can detect
as well but in general you can fix the
problem you looking at the code you
really don't understand you spend hours
and you go on to forums and you look at
it looking at it all over the best
solution is just to get a fresh pair of
eyes to take a look at it
for example, this stupid
thing I was doing
here because I was really
tired a friend came
along and she was like what are you
doing? are you nuts? and in the first
three seconds basically off looking at
the code she figured out hey you're
you're calling it
before the pushback method
you're printing it
out onto the screen
before the pushback method.
anyway the
moral of the story
is if you're stuck
get a fresh pair of
eyes to have a look
at it believe me you
will benefit from
it a great deal.
Anyway let's go over
this so this is very
similar to vectors
just include dq here
and the syntax is
more or less the same if not the same
except for the actual name so we have
declared one of 10
one of 5, one has no
elements, one has 3
elements and all 3 elemens
are initialized to
number 7, so the same
as in vectors, no
difference there this is
basically a print out
for the contents of a
dq for so it'll printout
three 7 onto the
screen and this is the preferred method
of referring to the elements of dq same
as for vectors I've
already explained this
in vectors, it's
exactly the same here
no difference pretty
much again the
check the bool and
emp1 and emp2 bools
basically just checking whether they are
empty or not one will be empty the
other one will not be empty the dq3
will be empty the dq2 will not
because you can see the dq3 is
indeed empty
we didn't find like a size of the
elements or anything like that we haven't
initialized any of the
elements either and
down below, i've printed,
during the demo of
the pushback method so you have std, endl this is
just
for formatting purposes
because you're gonna
have three 7 that are
printed out onto
the screen from here and then we're
going to print out the size of the dq3
then we're going to use the
pushback method to add 100 at the last
position and afterwards we will
request for the size one more time in
addition we will print out
the last element of the array basically
which also happens to be
the first because we've added only one
so let's go ahead and
run this and there
you go, so basically
here says 777 as we
have it initialized so
down below it says 0
think I have one too
many in your lines but that's fine
this line see here says the dq3
dot size it's a zero the size is 0
indeed we do the push
back and the integer
is 100 that is
what we are adding
into the end of the
line so to say and
down below we want to
print out the size
again as you can see from the code and
then we will print out the integer that
we've added to the end of the line as
well which is also the first of the
the last element
because the size is
1 so let's close
this and move on
sorry but that my throat is
tormenting me today a little bit because
god knows how many videos I don't
know I just felt like in the mood or
something. Anyway that's it but we can
also create an initialized
basically this what you
have here would be
the same for this
basically the ints if you
have a type int and if you have
then elements of type int and if you
haven't initializing yourself there will
be zeros for doubled it will be like
0.0 , 0.0 etc but if you want to
initialize them you
can go ahead and do
that as well so std,
colon colon, dq and
we're gonna go ahead
and let's say it gonna
be int I don't know
integer seems the most
convenient dq this is
gonna be again the
names are arbitrary
that's just how I've
chosen to name the
dq's for the sake
of demonstration 4321 so I don't think there is a need to add
anymore and now let's not use the for
loop which is a longer version of the
print out but rather instead let's go
ahead and try to print out
with the for each loop that is new in
C++ 11 you'll see how
to code will be simplified just type in
for int I dq 5 there you go
simple as that, std, cout, I, so they will rotate and they
will be printed out onto the screen
there you go 54321 simple as that
so another way of printing it out and a
way of initializing it, not big deal and
what we have also used
the push front and the
pop front method so
let's take a look at
those just two last methods that I
wanted to go over with you
just to go over with you
and then we're gonna move on to the next
tutorial so if I type in dq dot pop
back, this will basically
delete the last element
and after deleting the
last element that the
outlook of this will
change so we need to
basically just printed
out one more time into
the screen because we
we need to see how it
actually looks like I'm just type in
std, cout
yeah maybe there are other ways but
really don't feel that creative tonight
so there we go
will compare the two
outputs now we shall
compared the outputs, what?
oh right dq tere you go
basically 54321 and
we have removed the
last element its 5432
as you can see in
like vectors dq has
push front method as
well so we can put
something up to the
front that I mean it's nothing
to bring your head against the wall with
so it's very very simple just type in
push_front I just have a
you have a certain
amount of these
methods and you might
think ohh how will
I remember all of these things? etc.
believe me you won't have problems
remembering anything as long as it is
that you know what it is that you want
to do and what it is that you need to do
it
the names for these things in the forms
of the function they are embedded into
IDs so if you just
start typing at the ID
the integrated
development environment
will help you out with
suggestions if you
can't really remember
even the first
thing about the function you can always
look it up on the net it's fairly easy
there are a good
amount of forums out
there we can find a
ton lot of useful
information so as long as you're
actually using it as long as you're
actually coding developing some sort of
application or doing something useful
you will always be
able to pretty much, I
won't say to say
remember but you will
always be able to find what you're
looking for and the more could you write
greater your fluency with it will it
will be so the more you write to the
faster you will be able to write cause
you'll save a lot of time by not having
to look for look up the names anyway did
you push up front 100
can go ahead and create
a print out again
and we will like another
end line so I went
to go into the next
line as well let's
go ahead and run
it ok so it's 54
321 5432 and
then it pushes 100 to the beginning and its 100 5432
so put something in the back, put something in
the front remove
something from the back
etc, no big deal
you can use all of
these methods basically to manipulate
the contents of your dq's. Anyway
I'm gonna go ahead and bid you farewell here
and we will continue to follow tutorial
we will talk about string,
pay close attention
to the next tutorial
string is a type
which you will use quite often and
you should understand it to the maximum
extent in my opinion.
Anyway now I bid you
farewell again and hope
to see you in the follow up.